Normalization is the process of breaking down these relationships into simpler structures.
  the process of efficiently organizing data in a database so that redundant data is eliminated
  This process can ensure that all of a company’s data looks and reads similarly across all records. 
  By implementing data normalization, an organization standardizes data fields such as customer names, addresses, and phone numbers. 
A properly-normalized design improves performance and reduces the complexity of relationships by minimizing data duplication (redundancy).

Data redundancy occurs when the same piece of data is stored in two or more separate places (cause data inconsistency and increase in cost)
update anomaly is a data inconsistency that results from data redundancy and a partial update. 
  e.g. each employee in a company has a department associated with them as well as the student group they participate in. 
      If "IT" department is an error it must be updated at least 2 times or there will be inconsistent data in the database. 
     If the user performing the update does not realize the data is stored redundantly, the update will not be done properly.

deletion anomaly is the unintended loss of data due to deletion of other data
insertion anomaly is the inability to add data to the database due to absence of other data

Functional dependency is a dependency relationship
e.g. column A depends on column B or columns A, B, and E depend on columns C and D
In a well-designed table, all columns will depend on at least one column in the table. 
If there are columns that are independent of the others, they are candidates to be moved to a separate table.

Normalization process:
The process of normalizing a database involves applying a sequence of rules called normal forms to the database. 
heap = the table is unstructured and has no constraints that are required by any normal form (where we need to do normalization)

normal forms:
1NF: A relation/table is in 1NF if it contains an atomic value.
  There is no top-to-bottom ordering to the rows. (data in a table can be accessed in any order)
  There is no left-to-right ordering to the columns. (data in a table can be accessed in any order)
  Every row can be uniquely identified.
  Every row/column intersection (field) contains only one value.
2NF: A relation/table will be in 2NF if it is in 1NF and all non-key attributes are fully functional dependent on the primary key.
  all of the columns except the primary key need to be strictly related to each other. 
  Should not repeat data across rows.
3NF: A relation/table will be in 3NF if it is in 2NF and no non-primary-key column is transitively dependent on the primary key
  no transitively dependent: no non-primary-key column is functionally dependent on any non-key set of fields.
    dependent e.g. City depends on the primary key ContactID and the ZipCode depends on the primary key ContactID, but in the real world, a zip code is assigned a city. 
                   So City relies on ZipCode which relies on ContactID.

Denormalization:
When we normalize tables, we break them into multiple smaller tables. 
So when we want to retrieve data from multiple tables, we need to perform some kind of join operation on them. 
In that case, we use the denormalization technique that eliminates the drawback of normalization. 
(drawbacks of normalization: adds an additional table and more constraints. Constraints take time to process and add complexity to your data model)
Denormalization = a technique used by database administrators to optimize the efficiency of their database infrastructure. 
When optimizing for extreme performance, there are times that you are less concerned with data protection and choose to move back towards 1NF.
Allows us to add redundant data into a normalized database to alleviate issues with database queries that merge data from several tables into a single table. 
The denormalization concept is based on the definition of normalization that is defined as arranging a database into tables correctly for a particular purpose.
Used to process massive amounts of data and having to do dozens of table joins and calculations over huge result sets can be very slow. 
  The accepted solution to this problem is to periodically poll your database for changes and move the changed data into a denormalized structure, 
  and do any known calculations (sales by day, month, quarter, year, etc.) in advance. 
  Then when a user requests the reports, they can use this pre-optimized data to provide a quick response.




























